<h1>Document RAG Chat-Bot</h1>

<h3>Introduction</h3>
The application allows users to upload PDF documents, ask questions about their content, and receive accurate responses generated by a conversational AI model trained on Google's Generative AI. It combines various NLP techniques such as text extraction, vectorization, and question answering to provide an interactive and informative user experience.

<h3>Overview</h3>
The application combines text extraction, chunking, vectorization, and conversational AI techniques to process PDF documents and provide accurate answers to user queries. These techniques collectively enable the application to understand, analyze, and respond to natural language input effectively.

<h3> NLP Techniques Used</h3>
  <ol>
    <li><b>Text Extraction from PDF:</b>: The PyPDF2 library is used to extract text from PDF documents. This involves parsing the PDF files and extracting textual content from each page..</li>
<li><b>Text Chunking:</b>The extracted text is split into manageable chunks using a custom text splitter implemented in the langchain library. This helps in processing large amounts of text efficiently, especially when dealing with lengthy documents.</li>
    
<li><b>Word Embeddings:</b>:Google Generative AI embeddings are used to represent words or chunks of text in a high-dimensional vector space. These embeddings capture semantic similarities between words, enabling the model to understand the context and meaning of the tex</li>

<li><b>Vectorization:</b>:The text chunks are converted into vectors using the Google Generative AI embeddings. These vectors are then used to create a searchable vector store, which facilitates efficient similarity search for question answering.</li>

<li><b>Conversational AI:</b>:The application employs a conversational AI model, specifically the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework with Google's Generative AI model Gemini-PRO. This model is used for question answering, where users can ask questions related to the content of the uploaded PDF documents, and the model generates contextually relevant responses based on the provided text and the user query.</li>

  </ol>

<h3>Pre-Requisites</h3>
<ol>
<li><b>Google API Key:</b>Obtain a Google API key to interact with Google's Generative AI models. Visit [Google API Key Setup](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey) to get your key.</li>
<li><b>Streamlit:</b>:This application is built with Streamlit. Ensure you have Streamlit installed in your environment.</li>

</ol>
